# ZwiftAssignmentTestFramework

Assignment: Testing 2 Scenarios of Zwift Webpage
* Home Page
* Event Page

Test Scenarios:

- Home Page

*Navigate to https://zwift.com
*Validate the page loads.
*Validate content of your choice is present.

- Events Page

*Navigate to https://zwift.com
*Use the top-nav elements to reach https://zwift.com/events
*Validate the page loads.
*Populate the Sports, Intensities, and Start Times dropdown fields.
*Validate events have changed. (Assume that the filters you choose may return NO events.

*Delivery:

*Provide a GitHub repository for review.
*Provide instructions on how to execute the tests within your project within your git repository's `README.md`.
*Include any prerequisite industry-standard software. Examples: NodeJS, Chrome, Firefox and Java/JDK.
*Require MIT License.

***************************

*Prject Name: Zwift
*ArtifactID/package: assignment
*Language: Java, jdk 11
*IDE: Eclipse IDE for Java Developers 2020-09 (Community Version) 
*Build Management tool: Maven
*Dependencies: Available in the Maven Central Repository. All required dependencies are added to the pom.xml of the project. 
*Maven Compiler: 11. Added to the pom.xml as property.

Project Structure: 4 packages -
*  pageObject - contains 4 java classes. Page Object repos are identified with the PO to the end of the classname (HomePagePO, SignInPagePO, EventsPagePO). BaseDriver is another java class to initialize the WebDriver.
* stepDefintion - test repo which contains 4 java classes. The test cases are identified with the Test to the end of the classname (HomePageTest, EventsTest). 2 other classes are TestNGListers and TestRunner.
* utils - contains 3 java classes (ConfiqReader, Screenshot, Waits)
All these packages belongs to the src/test/java
*src/test/resources contains Drivers Folder where ChromeDriver and GeckoDrover is added
*The source folder confiq contains a properties file which contains the required data for the project
*The Report folder contains a Screenshot folder where screenshots will be saven autometically for any test fails
*The Test-output folder coantains all the reports, logs and test execution statuses generated by TestNG and Junit.


************************************

How to run:

Three different ways to run:
* Individual test file can be run seperately as Run-->Testng Test by clicking right button
* As TestNG suite by clicking right button on ZwiftAssignmentKawsar.xml file.
* There is a TestRunner class under stepDefinition package. Run as Java application. 
* Rerun only failed test cases, if any, by running test-output->Kawsar->testng-failed.xml

Reports: 
* For full report: open testng-results.xml file in system edition by right click
* See junitreports folder for individual test results  

Other Instructions:
* Please delete all the files from test-output folder before first run after cloning
* Please delete any screenshot png file from the Screenshot folder before each run 
* Find the old logs after each run into the folder name old under test-output folder
* Please build the project first after cloning from the github repo
* The project source path sould be auto set up in the local after cloing and buidling the porject. However, please make sure all the paths are correct.
* Refresh the project after each run to get the files in test-output folder and to see the scheenshots in Reporst folder
* This framework is designed to achieve minium requirments for the assignment project. There is huge scope to add new features to make this test framework robust.

*************************************

Dependendices and properties (if needed, just copy and paste to the pom.xml file if you recreate the project in any case):

	<dependencies>

		<dependency>
			<groupId>org.seleniumhq.selenium</groupId>
			<artifactId>selenium-java</artifactId>
			<version>4.0.0-alpha-3</version>
		</dependency>

		<!-- https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/io.cucumber/cucumber-core -->
		<dependency>
			<groupId>io.cucumber</groupId>
			<artifactId>cucumber-core</artifactId>
			<version>6.6.0</version>
		</dependency>

		<!-- https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/io.cucumber/cucumber-java -->
		<dependency>
			<groupId>io.cucumber</groupId>
			<artifactId>cucumber-java</artifactId>
			<version>6.6.0</version>
		</dependency>

		<!-- https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/io.cucumber/cucumber-junit -->
		<dependency>
			<groupId>io.cucumber</groupId>
			<artifactId>cucumber-junit</artifactId>
			<version>6.9.1</version>
			<scope>test</scope>
		</dependency>

		<!-- https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.testng/testng -->
		<dependency>
			<groupId>org.testng</groupId>
			<artifactId>testng</artifactId>
			<version>6.14.3</version>
			<scope>test</scope>
		</dependency>

		<!-- https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/commons-io/commons-io -->
		<dependency>
			<groupId>commons-io</groupId>
			<artifactId>commons-io</artifactId>
			<version>2.8.0</version>
		</dependency>

	</dependencies>

	<properties>
		<maven.compiler.source>11</maven.compiler.source>
		<maven.compiler.target>11</maven.compiler.target>
	</properties>



